this is more of a general complaint
plate I've received on this video as
well as other videos the notion that by
doing these response videos to other
vegans criticizing things that they said
things that they've promoted that this
is somehow bad for the vegan community
why is critique so important I study
politics political philosophy political
science my study of politics has
included some of the worst disasters in
the history of the world it's humbling
to really look at those disasters and
understand that the majority of the
people involved had good intentions
there are situations where millions of
people get killed and when you interview
the people who were responsible who made
the decisions the government officials
the leaders whatever it is you you can
actually find that they had nothing but
good intentions you guys know I've
worked on events in Cambodia China Laos
but I've recently Russia to a lot of us
that was tough on Russia this last year
it's humbling to recognize many of the
same disasters in principle can happen
and do happen even within a Western
democracy like Canada it's terrifying to
look at what the Canadian government did
first nations to really evaluate what
went wrong that included significant
numbers of people being killed children
being taken away from their parents put
in for finishes although they're not
orphans and then large numbers of those
kids would be dead or disappear and the
parents wouldn't even get a death
certificate and there were no answers
and no accountability this is within a
Western capitalist democracy with a Free
Press simply the absence of scrutiny the
absence of critique the absence of
direct democracy being involved was
enough for features of fascism and
features of communism to exist within
Canada
and you may think I'm exaggerating crack
open a book on the history of First
Nations Canada's indigenous people and
you will see that's not an exaggeration
it's a terrifying chapter of our history
terrifying because of what it shows us
about human nature so democracy
- scrutiny - critique very quickly can
slip into being just as bad as a
communist dictatorship or a fascist
dictatorship I remember reading about
one of the indigenous ethnic groups in
Russia who are called the cats ke T s
the cats what happened to them under
Josef Stalin is eerily similar to what
the government of Canada was doing to
our indigenous people the Cree the
achieve way at the same time in history
they're simultaneous and parallel
histories of forced assimilation taking
children away from their parents
destroying the indigenous language
forcing them to speak a new language
forcing them to live in a different kind
of housing and so on recently I also did
some research to that kind about the
indigenous people on Sakhalin Island the
extreme east of Russia Russian Asia
there are vegans who say how dare you
criticize what other vegans are doing
recently I gave a substantive critique
of Gary Yourofsky in the past I've given
substantive critiques of other leaders
of opinion within veganism I'll answer
that question I dare because I know the
danger of not daring ok I know how
easily small political movements
including religious groups like cults
fringe political movements I know how
quickly small political movements can
drift into really dangerous and
destructive behavior and I know how on a
huge scale whole nations can drift into
terrible disasters even when the people
involved really have the best of
intentions
scrutiny mutual scrutiny substantive
critique is of such crucial importance
and I don't know maybe that's one of the
things I can contribute to the vegan
community is that perspective of God
coming out of my peculiar background
working on some of the worst political
disasters in history of the world that
happens to be part of my experience